1. Snowflake Architecture and its various components  
2. Data loading and challenges faced  
3. Data loading includes copy command, how do you create stages, various stages - table/internal/external  
4. How do stages differ from each other?  
5. How to create external stage referencing S3 bucket/ADSL  
6. Scenarios like how do you handle duplicates as integrity constraints are not enforced in SF  
7. What are warehouses and how do you design it  
8. Performance optimization - Auto Scaling, Caching, and clustering  
9. Scenarios where you have used time travel features  
10. UDF and how have you used it?  
11. Restrictions in SF as compared to RDBMS database  
12. If you have worked on migration, what are challenges faced and how did you overcome it  
13. Task, streams implementation scenario  
14. Structured/semi-structured files: how have you loaded them?  
15. Volume of data you have handled  
16. Architecture of your project  
17. Orchestration of SF pipelines - tools being used for it  
18. How do you handle transactional transactions in Snowflake  
19. Snowpipe  
20. Data Unloading  
21. Role-based access management - important to have knowledge on this  
22. How do normal views and materialized views differ in Snowflake  


Retention of streams
Limitattion of stream, tasks
how do u handle failure of task
how to u handle failure of procedure
how to handle error records which are skipped through copy command
can we consume  data from one stream to 2 tables.
does task cost differently
What objects Cannot be shared in Snowflake?
What are the limitations of Snowflake share object ?
can we share the share object from producer  to another consumer

What are the features of Snowflake?
What is the schema in Snowflake?
What kind of SQL does Snowflake use?
What ETL tools do you use with Snowflake?
What type of database is Snowflake?
What is Snowflake Time Travel?
What is SnowPipe?
Is Snowflake OLTP or OLAP?
How to create a Snowflake task?
How is Snowflake different from Redshift?

